Key derivation and error handling updates (#127)
tfpauly/draft-pauly-adaptive-dns-privacy: draft-pauly-oblivious-doh.md

<Bytes containing the encrypted payload for an Oblivious DNS response>
~~~

> The following example shows a 4xx (Client Error) response that can be sent from an Oblivious

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need an example here--if anything, it is getting us into murkier waters, since an error can have a body that explains the error. How about we just explain that you should send a 4xx error if the request cannot be processed?

Author: Oh, fair. I'll just replace it with text.

Author: Should be fixed now!

public_key
: The HPKE public key used by the client to encrypt Oblivious DoH queries.

# Protocol Encoding {#encryption}

## Message Format

There are two types of Oblivious DoH messages: Queries (0x01) and Responses (0x02).
Both messages carry the following information:

1. A DNS message, which is either a Query or Response, depending on context.
1. Padding of arbitrary length which MUST contain all zeros.

> They are encoded encoded using the following structure:

Reviewer 2: s/encoded encoded/encoded

(sorry @chris-wood, I still haven't figured out how to use suggestions :-)

> They are encoded encoded using the following structure:

Author: ```suggestion
They are encoded using the following structure:
```

DISCLAIMER: this is a work in progress draft and has not yet seen significant security analysis.

Oblivious DoH aims to keep knowledge of the true query origin and its contents known to only
clients. In particular, it assumes an extended Dolev-Yao style attacker which can observe all client

> queries, including those forwarded by oblivious proxies, and does not collude with target resolvers.

Reviewer 3: I was thinking it could collude with target resolvers, I was assuming it just couldn't collude with both the proxy and the target at the same time.

Author: Yeah, I should have updated this. The text below suggests that it can compromise the target or proxy, anyway.

Author: @jhoyla -- does the new text look good to you? I think it clarifies things.

Indeed, if a target colludes with the network attacker, then said attacker can learn the true query
origin and its contents.

As a simplified model, consider a case where there exists two clients C1 and C2, one proxy P, and
one target T. The attacker can adaptively compromise either P or T, but not C1 or C2. Once compromised,
the attacker has access to all session information and private key material. (This generalizes to
arbitrarily many clients, proxies, and targets, with the constraint that not all targets and proxies

> are compromised, and all but two clients are left uncompromised.) In this model, both C1 and C2 send

Reviewer 3: Maybe "simultaneously compromised" would be clearer.

> an Oblivious DoH query Q1 and Q2, respectively, through P to T, and T provides answers A1 and A2. The

Reviewer 3: Nit: Oblivious DoH queries,

DISCLAIMER: this is a work in progress draft and has not yet seen significant security analysis.

Oblivious DoH aims to keep knowledge of the true query origin and its contents known to only clients.
As a simplified model, consider a case where there exists two clients C1 and C2, one proxy P, and
one target T. Oblivious DoH assumes an extended Dolev-Yao style attacker which can observe all
network activity and can adaptively compromise either P or T, but not C1 or C2. Once compromised,
the attacker has access to all session information and private key material. (This generalizes to

> arbitrarily many clients, proxies, and targets, with the constraint that not all targets and proxies

Reviewer 3: Nit: constraints

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
arbitrarily many clients, proxies, and targets, with the constraints that not all targets and proxies
```

> are simultaneously compromised, and all but two clients are left uncompromised.) The attacker is

Reviewer 3: Nit: and at least two

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are simultaneously compromised, and at least two clients are left uncompromised.) The attacker is
```

and its contents.) Moreover, Oblivious DoH assumes that Proxies and Targets are not malicious and
they do not collude. Malicious Targets are out of scope because DNS recursive resolvers behind
targets may reply with legitimate or bogus answers in the absence of DNSSEC, so Target malfeasance
does not introduce a unique threat. Moreover, malicious Proxies are out of scope because clients must
trust them to access Targets. Malicious Proxies could block or otherwise tamper with Oblivious DoH
queries, though this is not different from a malicious network which blocks client access to a
DoH server.

Oblivious DoH aims to achieve the following confidentiality goals in the presence of this threat model:

1. Queries and answers are known only to clients and targets in possession of the corresponding
response key and HPKE keying material. In particular, proxies know the origin and destination
of an oblivious query, yet do not know the plaintext query. Likewise, targets know only the oblivious
query origin, i.e., the proxy, and the plaintext query. Only the client knows both the plaintext
query contents and destination.

> 1. Target resolvers cannot link queries from the same client in the absence of unique per-client

Reviewer: Is this numbering change correct?

Author: Yeah, Markdown renders it correctly. It saves us from having to update the numbers if we swap things around.

lightweight extension to standard DoH, implemented as an application-layer proxy, that can be enabled
as a default mode for users which need increased privacy.

> 1. As a one-hop proxy, Oblivious DoH encourages connection-less proxies to mitigate client query correlation

Reviewer: Same here.
